Information about Adama science and technology university
Adama Science and Technology University (ASTU) was first established in 1993 as Nazareth Technical College (NTC), offering degree and diploma level education in technology fields. Later, the institution was renamed as Nazareth College of Technical Teacher Education (NCTTE), a self-explanatory label that describes what the institution used to train back then: candidates who would become technical teachers for TVET colleges/Schools across the country.
In 2003, a new addition to NCTTE came about—introduction of business education. Nonetheless, the new entries were solely meant for similar purposes: these graduates were also expected to help overcome the existing dearth of educators in vocational institutions.
Although it is an institution with a history of only two decades, ASTU is known for its dynamic past. It has always been responsive to the realization of national policies: training of technologists at its infant stage, and later shifting to training of technical trainers, as well as business educators, to fill the gap in TVETs. Following its inauguration in May 2006 as Adama University, the full-fledged university started opening other academic programs in other areas—an extension to its original mission.
However, it was not until it was nominated by the Ministry of Education as Center of Excellence in Technology in 2008 that it opened various programs in applied engineering and technology. For its realization, it became a university modeled after the German paradigm: it not only became the only technical university in the nation, but also the only one led by a German professor.
Notwithstanding closure of  some disciplines as per the new vision and mission, the ensuing three years saw flourishing of graduate programs, of which some (like a few in the undergraduate program) were exceptional to our university. The same period saw pioneering of the university in introducing PhD by Research and MA/MSC by Research programs. Before 2008, the university was stratified into faculties, and ASTU’s reach was limited to its only campus in Adama town. The university has now extended its reach to Asella, where two of the total seven schools are located. The faculties at the main campus include: School of Business, School of Engineering and Information Technologies, School of Humanities and Law, School of Natural Sciences, and School of Educational Science and Technology Teachers Education. On the other hand, the two schools in Asella are the School of Agriculture and School of Health and Hospital.
In addition to its main concern (academics), ASTU is also host of research Institutes and enterprises. In the main campus, apart from the Institute of Continuing and Distance Education (ICDE), there exist two others: the Further Training Institute (better known as FTI) and Adama Institute of Sustainable Energy. The sister town where the two schools are located, Asella, is also host to the Artificial Insemination Institute and Asella model Agricultural Enterprise.
Following its renaming by the Council of Ministers as Adama Science and Technology University in May 2011, the university has started working towards the attainment of becoming a center of excellence in science and technology, thereby allowing for the realization of goals set in the Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP). To this end, a South Korean has been appointed as President of the University. Currently, ASTU is setting up a Research Park, in collaboration with stakeholders and other concerned bodies: one of a kind in the Ethiopian context. The university is also venturing out to the wider community and is currently engaged in various joint undertakings.
Vision,Mission and Core Values
Vision
ASTU aspires to be the first choice in Ethiopia and the premier center of excellence in applied science and technology in Africa by 2030.
Mission
The mission of ASTU is to provide ethical and competent graduates in applied science and technology through quality education, demand driven research and community service. ASTU also provides innovative knowledge to support the socio-economic development of the nation.
Core Values
Originality and Innovativeness
Academic freedom and integrity
Sense of belongingness and ownership
Nurturing diversity
Transparency and accountability
Professional ethics
Responsiveness
Programs
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs Course Catalog
Background
Unlike other universities in Ethiopia, Adama Science and Technology University (ASTU) established a system whereby students can design their own curriculum that fit their personal interest and future plan under three engineering schools and an applied natural science school. In relation to this, the office of undergraduate was established in ASTU for the provision of vigorous academic leadership in all matters relating to undergraduate education such as supervising admission and placement of students, monitoring effectiveness of the department curricula and academic services to meet students and stakeholders demands, ensuring the provision of quality education, and creatong opportunities for all ASTU students to learn and develop personally through experiences outside the university.

Mission

It has a mission of “ensuring quality education and training in science and technology to produce graduates who can primarily contribute to the country’s economic and social development.” The office achieves this mission by disseminating gained and discovered knowledge and skills through high quality research based teaching that inspires and actively engages students, and professionals. Moreover, the office facilitates the integration of students with communities and other stakeholders.

Goals and objectives

Goals and objectives of the office which are related to admission and placement, provision of quality education, ensuring the effectiveness of undergraduate curricula and academic service, and student, staff and community development are to:

attract and retain best students through coordinated promotion of the university and the provision of consistent and effective academic and personal support for student learning and development, and
provide an affordable, but high quality education by focusing on research based learning and employing educational technology and administering continuous assessment and standard examination
engage students with communities and clients’ problems outside the university, targeted outreach activities, commissioned research projects with industries and etc
review the effectiveness of curricula periodically
Main Activities

 Ensuring effective student admission, registration, retention, and degree completion processes and other activities.
Ensuring the proper maintenance of student records in schools in accordance with guidelines to be set by the Office of the Students Admission and Registrar.
Planning and executing the plan of the activities and budget for UG program
Collecting and compiling students’ data from a variety of sources.
 Directing and monitoring the teaching learning process to foster excellence in teaching.
 Monitoring, coordinating and facilitating workloads, course schedules, class delivery, administration of examinations and other teaching learning activities.
 Developing course catalogue and period review of the catalogue.
 Facilitating inter-school course delivery, local and international internships, and student industrial and related visits.
 Preparing guidelines for improving operational efficiencies of the aforementioned academic activities.
 Addressing student inquires and complaints.
 Overseeing the implementation of fast track, dual major and minor study and other academic events in the university
 Developing and implementing new ideas and practices to enhance the academic experience of students
 Identifying and implementing best practices in undergraduate teaching-learning, academic advising, and resource utilization
 Engaging students with communities and clients’ problem outside the university
 Ensuring effective use of available resources
 Creating partnership to advance education and undergraduate research

Postgraduate
Documents for more information about postgraduate and PhD programs
Post Graduate Guidelines
Post Graduate Programs
Postgraduate curricula development
Adama Science and Technology University currently exerts tremendous effort to become a leading Science and Technology University in the country in-line with the developmental strategy of MOST. It is one of the higher learning institutions in Ethiopia that has recognized the importance of establishing and maintaining strong PhD and Masters Programs. Since then, the postgraduate programs has been devoted to design new curricula graduate programs to satisfy the current demands of academic institutions, industries and research centers.  
Major references made during preparation of the PG curriculum are:
The experiences of some well-known Science and Technology Universities abroad
MoST’s Directives
ASTU’s Senate Legislation
ASTU’s postgraduate Guideline
ASTU’S new postgraduate programs

 Masters Programs
Lists of Masters Programs in 2017/2018 A/Y
1. School of Applied Natural Science
Master of Science in in Applied physics
Master of Science in Applied Biology
Master of Science in Applied Chemistry
Master of Science in Applied Mathematics
School of Electrical Engineering & Computing
Master of Science in Electrical Power and Control Engineering
Master of Science in Electronics & Communication Engineering
Master of Science in Information System and Engineering
Master of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Program
School of Civil Engineering & Architecture
Master of Science in Geotechnical Engineering
Master of Science in Urban Planning and Design
Master of Science in Water Resources Engineering (Irrigation Engineering).
Master of Science in Geo-informatics
Master of Science in Environmental Architecture
School of Mechanical, Chemical and Materials Engineering
Master of Science in Agricultural Machinery Engineering
Master of Science in Materials Science and Engineering
Master of Science in Automotive Engineering
Master of Science in Manufacturing Engineering
Master of Science in Thermal Engineering
Master of Science in Chemical Engineering

School and programs
School of Applied Natural Sciences
Programs (4 year)
Applied Biology
Applied Chemistry
Applied Geology
Applied Mathematics
Applied Physics 
School of Civil Engineering and Architecture
Programs (5 year)
Architecture
Civil Engineering
Construction Technology and Management
Urban Planning and Design
Geomatics Engineering 
Water Resources Engineering 
School of Electrical Engineering and Computing
Programs (5 year)
Computer Science and Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electrical Power and control Engineering
School of Mechanical, Chemical, and Materials Engineering
Programs (5 year)
Chemical Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Design and Manufacturing Engineering
Mechanical Systems and Vehicle Engineering
Thermal and Aerospace Engineering

School of Applied Natural Science
In the past three years visions and missions of ASTU have been much transformed and The School of Applied Natural Science (SoANS) is also in changing progress with the new strategic plan. SoANS will focus on cutting edge applied natural science which aims for the establishment of the excellence in education and research through infrastructures of undergraduate and postgraduate course works.
Science becomes more and more fundamental in the 21st century for the construction of creative society and innovative industry. With this in mind SoANS is now transforming our young intellectuals into independent and creative problem solvers of science to be self-respecting global scientists and professionals.
For Natural Science to be applied distinct concepts and knowledge would be required in education and research which will be later translated into industry and economy.
SoANS will select and focus Applied Natural Science and Technology of Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, and Physics to be stepping stones for prosperous future of our country.
Description of School of Applied Natural Science
School of Applied Natural Sciences (SoANS) is composed of five programs. They are applied programs of Biology, Chemistry and Geology. Mathematics, and Physics. SoANS has two distinct characteristics compared to the other Ethiopian universities. First, we are research-based and graduate-centered science and Technology University which focus on teaching and training of students how to think creatively for the cascade of the natural science. Second, we aim not only for academia but also for industry by way of translational research to connect discoveries to developments. Both leave us very big challenges towards existing and emerging science and technology. Students both in undergraduate and in postgraduate courses will accelerate themselves by the collaboration with excellent professionals in international institutes and universities through exchange programs and co-work environments. For these goals to be accomplished infrastructure and human resources of SoANS will be upgraded without compromises.
 School of Applied Natural Science (SoANS)Program Descriptions
The courses offered in the five programs of the school are designed in a way that enables students to relate fundamental principles and theories of natural sciences with applicable practices.
Applied Biology
Applied biology is a discipline that put biological principles and theories into practices. It focuses on solving specific life science problems and creating biological products. Main focused fields are structural and molecular biology, molecular medicine, cellular and developmental biology, and plant sciences. Undergraduate students are educated basic concepts of biology and related topics to understand biological pathways and phenomenon. In postgraduate course implementation of creative suggestions for the solution of current biological problems and validation by individual research with supervisors and academic staffs will be carried out systemically. Translational research is encouraged to deliver biological discoveries to industry sector through Bio resource Research Center and Chemical Biology Center. The establishment of excellence in applied biology will be accomplished by the collaboration between programs and schools, and international exchange programs are essential components for the globalization of students.[/accordion_item]
Applied Chemistry
               - Industrial Chemistry
               - Pharmacy 
The applied chemistry program incorporates the basic chemical sciences with applicable practices. The program provides the basic analytical, inorganic, organic and physical chemistry courses with their current application:
Analytical chemistry focuses on the qualitative and quantitative determination of the chemical components of substances. It is applicable in forensic chemistry, environmental chemistry and drug testing.
Inorganic chemistry studies the properties of inorganic compounds like crystal structures, minerals, metals, catalysts, and most elements in the periodic table. Bioinorganic chemistry, solid state chemistry, geochemistry, nuclear chemistry, and organometallic chemistry are some of the branches.
Organic chemistry involves the study of the structure, properties, and preparation of chemical compounds of mainly carbon & hydrogen and other elements such as nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur, the halogens and silicon. It is applicable in medicinal chemistry, natural products and polymer materials chemistry.
Physical chemistry applies physics to the study of chemistry. It typically studies the rate of a chemical reaction, the interaction of molecules with radiation, and the calculation of structures and properties. It is applicable in photochemistry, surface chemistry, spectroscopy, chemical kinetics and quantum chemistry.
Along with the four disciplines of chemistry, the program also encompasses compulsory and elective applied chemistry courses on process design, biological chemistry, health and safety, environmental protection, biomaterials, inorganic materials, polymer materials, medicinal chemistry, industrial chemistry. The program is intended to include internship schedule in the summer of the undergraduate study in order to make students be acquainted with the real chemistry application.
Applied Geology
The Geology program has been conducting training and research in the wide areas of geosciences including mineralogy, petrology, hydrogeology, historical geology, structural geology, economic geology, mining geology, engineering geology, and environmental geology. These have led to significant contribution in the development of human resources in geosciences and in understanding the geology and geologic resources of Ethiopia.
The program has been focused on the knowledge gaps of the following projects;
Geodynamics of the East African Rift,
Petrogenesis of various rocks of Ethiopia,
Reconstruction of paleo-environmental setting of Ethiopia,
Inventory/baseline survey of earth materials and earth resources of Ethiopia.
Graduates from the Applied Geology Program are doing researches on
Geological surveying: (e.g. Geological survey of Ethiopia)
Groundwater and Surface water exploration and Exploitation and Irrigation
Geotechnical and construction: Roads, Tunnels, Bridges, Dams and other infrastructures
Energy : Hydropower, wind and geothermal
Mineral Exploration and Mining: Economic Mineral (Precious metals and base metals), Industrial minerals and Gemstones
Environmental Protection and Geohazard Monitoring (Landslides, Earth quakes, flooding and ground cracks)
Applied Mathematics
Applied mathematics deals with the application of mathematics to the solution of non-mathematical problems. Such problems may originate in math-oriented fields (physics, chemistry, and engineering) as well as in other areas such as geology, meteorology, biology, environmental health, economics, and business (operations and market research). Students will learn to use methods of applied mathematics, probability, statistics, numerical analysis, and scientific computing in seeking solutions to such problems. Courses will be organized as core, elective and common courses.
The general objectives of applied mathematics program are:

School of Civil Engineering and Architecture (SOCEA)

The ASTU School of civil engineering and architecture is restructured on November 2014 containing eight programs namely: Structure Engineering, geotechnical Engineering, hydraulics & environmental Engineering, construction technology and management, irrigation Engineering and river basin development, Architecture, urban planning and design, geomatics Engineering.  Currently, it comprise 4947 active UG students 140 academic staff member.  
Vision
School of civil engineering and architecture, in line ASTU’s vision, aspires to become a leader player in the Ethiopian industrial Revolution with national recognition in delivering research based quality education, innovative and outstanding research based quality education, innovative and outstanding research findings, meaningful and wanted to support the development of the country.
Mission
The mission of the school is delivering the three pillars education (teaching learning, research, community service) at the highest possible cutting edge standard to the nation. These would include:
Delivering the highest quality education and training in science and technology and graduating fully capable engineers, who can design, operate, control, manage and execute and endeavor in their area of profession ethics and conduct.
Providing education and training systems fully integrated and augmented by relevant research
Serving as a center of excellence for science and technology in the field civil engineering industrial development
Conducting applied problem solving research & providing consultancy and community service.
Organizational Structure and Contact Address
Programs Description
Architecture
Architecture is an art and science of designing buildings and other structures, and it deals with planning, designing and constructing form, space and ambience to reflect functional, technical, social, environmental and aesthetic considerations. It requires the creative manipulation and coordination of materials and technology, and of light and shadow. The practice of architecture also encompasses the pragmatic aspects of realizing buildings and structures, including scheduling, cost estimation and construction administration. Documentation produced by architects, typically drawings, plans and technical specifications, defines the structure and/or behaviour of a building or other kind of system that is to be or has been constructed. Architecture brings together the knowledge of art, science & technology and humanity for buildings and structures.
Urban Planning & Design
Urban planning is a technical and political process concerned with the use of land and design of the urban environment, including air, water, and the infrastructure passing into and out of urban areas such as transportation and distribution networks. It guides and ensures the orderly development of settlements and satellite communities which commute into and out of urban areas or share resources with it. It concerns itself with research and analysis, strategic thinking, architecture, urban design, public consultation, policy recommendations, implementation and management. Urban design is the process of designing and shaping cities, towns and villages. Whereas architecture focuses on individual buildings, urban design address the larger scale of groups of buildings, of streets and public spaces, whole neighbourhoods and districts, and entire cities, to make urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable. Urban design is an inter-disciplinary subject that unites all the built environment professions, including urban planning, landscape architecture, architecture, civil and municipal engineering. Urban design demands a good understanding of a wide range of subjects from physical geography, through to social science, and an appreciation for disciplines, such as real estate development, urban economics, political economy and social theory.

Urban Planning & Design
Construction Technology & Managment
Geomatics Engineering
Water Resource Engineering
Urban design is the process of designing and shaping cities, towns and villages. Whereas architecture focuses on individual buildings, urban design address the larger scale of groups of buildings, of streets and public spaces, whole neighbourhoods and districts, and entire cities, to make urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable. Urban design is an inter-disciplinary subject that unites all the built environment professions, including urban planning, landscape architecture, architecture, civil and municipal engineering. Urban design demands a good understanding of a wide range of subjects from physical geography, through to social science, and an appreciation for disciplines, such as real estate development, urban economics, political economy and social theory.
Civil Engineering
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, buildings etc. It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including Structural Engineering and Geotechnical Engineering. Subjects related to structural engineering deals with the analysis and design of structures that support or resist loads. Structural Engineering is largely the implementation of mechanics to the design of the large structures that are fundamental to basic living, such as buildings, bridges, walls, dams, and tunnels. Structural engineering theory is based upon applied physical laws and empirical knowledge of the structural performance of different materials and geometries. Structural engineering design utilizes a number of simple structural elements to build complex structural systems. While subjects related to Geotechnical engineering associate with the behavior of soils under the influence of loading forces and soil-water interactions. This knowledge is applied to the design of foundations, retaining walls, earth dams, clay liners, and geosynthetics for waste containment. The goals of geotechnical engineers could range from the design of foundations and temporary excavation support, through route selection for railways and highways, to the increasingly important areas of landfill disposal of wastes and groundwater contamination. Geotechnical principles are important in civil engineering, but also has applications in military, mining, petroleum and other engineering disciplines that are concerned with construction occurring on the surface or within the ground.

School of Electrical Engineering & Computing (SoEEC)
The current School of Electrical Engineering and Computing is established following, the renaming of the Adama Science and Technology University by the Council of Ministers in May 2011 and shifting of the university from Ministry of Education (MoE) to Ministry of Science and Technology (MoST) to work towards the attainment to become the best Centre of Excellencies in Science and Technology in Ethiopia. Thereby, allowing for the realization of goal has set in the Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP).
Currently, School of Electrical Engineering and Computing has three programs under it:
 Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Program
 Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) program
 Electrical Power and Control Engineering (EPCE) program
Vision of SoEEC
 To produce a world-class competent electrical engineers and computing professionals who are equipped with necessary skills and knowledge to solve individuals and organizational problems of the country and bring about growth to the whole world.
 To excel in teaching, research, and industry linkage/consultancy at a national level as well as regionally in the field of Electrical Engineering and Computing.
Mission of SoEEC
 To its students, the SoEEC provides world-class curricula that facilitate student-centered and research-oriented learning in Electrical Engineering and Computing field that are relevant to their lives and careers, valuable in terms of content and competencies, and connected to the needs of industry.
 To industry, the SoEEC produces practitioner-oriented electrical engineers with the field of specialization in Electrical power, control, communication, Electronics, software, computer science and information system who can provide plausible scientific solutions to real world problems. The SoEEC actively partners with industries to provide students the opportunity to acquire practical skills from industry expertise.
Objectives of SoEEC
General Objectives
 To direct and assist students in the acquisition of fundamental principles of Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering & Electrical Power and Control Engineering.
 To stimulate and encourage students to have sound practical knowledge of the fields, through project work and evaluation.
Specific Objectives
 To Design different problem-solving principles and techniques in the area of Electrical engineering and computing.
 To Understand and apply high-level tools and emerging Technologies.
 To Apply various systems’ theory and principles to real world problems.
 To Develop communication skills to effectively interact with customers, supervisors and peers, both orally and in writing
- To Learn to work effectively in teams to achieve a common goal
 To Develop skills to monitor, supervise, manage projects and handle conflict
 To Understand ethical expectations of a computing professional
Program and Its Description
Computer Science and Engineering, CSE
The mission of the Computer Science and Engineering CSE program is to provide students with a broad and flexible education in computer science and engineering, to prepare its graduates for rapidly changing technological fields, and give them a sound basis for professional practice, advanced education, active citizenship, and lifelong learning. The students are prepared to expand this knowledge through research into new technologies, design methods, and analysis techniques that link the knowledge with multi-disciplinary fields and advance the state of the art. With a knowledge of contemporary technological issues and their impact globally, economically, and environmentally, computer scientists and engineers are at the forefront of advances that continually transform society.  Read More
Electronics and Communication Engineering, ECE
Electronics and Communication Engineering is one of the programs of School of Electrical Engineering & Computing that aims to integrate separate engineering fields to meet the joint demands made by the Electronics and Communication industries in today's world. This program includes design, implementation and testing of a wide range of Electronics and Communication systems such as electronic devices, communications devices, digital signal processing and networking.  Read More
Electrical Power and Control Engineering, EPCE
The program of Electrical Power and Control Engineering (EPCE) is one of the three programs in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Adama Science and Technology University. The Program is aimed in serving the country by producing engineers and researchers who are playing key roles in the various sectors of development in the country and also advanced the University’s reputation. The core strategy of the Program is to pursue its vision and mission to enhance its research, linkage with industry, academic and scholarly activities and become a center of excellence for its programs, thereby improving its eminence in national and international rankings.

School of Mechanical, Chemical & Materials Engineering (SoMCME)
Description of the School
The School of Mechanical, Chemical and Materials Engineering came in to existence following the new structure of ASTU and it encompass Engineering programs related to Mechanical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Agricultural Mechanization Engineering. Currently, the School has developed Curricula for five Undergraduate Programs (Thermal and Aerospace Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mechanical Design and Manufacturing Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering, and Mechanical Systems and Vehicle Engineering. It has also three Postgraduate Programs running under two of its current Departments (namely Manufacturing Engineering, Automotive Engineering and Agricultural machinery Engineering). New UG and PG programs will be opened based on the needs of the country in the years to come.
The School of Mechanical, Chemical and Materials Engineering  is aimed at producing skilled professionals on the areas of Chemical Industries, Automotive Industries, Metal and Agricultural manufacturing industries which highly contribute for the economic development and transformation of the country.
Program description of each of the five undergraduate (UG) programs:
Short Description of the Programs
Thermal and Aerospace Engineering
Thermal and Aerospace Engineering a field of study which is  a combination of two very similar fields of mechanical engineering namely, thermal and aerospace engineering. Students will choose their destiny based on the available elective courses.
Thermal engineering is a branch of engineering that applies scientific knowledge to the design, manufacturing and operation of thermal and flow equipments and systems. The fundamental principles of thermal engineering apply to all equipments and systems that involve, heat generation, heat transfer, cooling, heating, and fluid flow such as pumps, compressors, turbines, fans, blowers, boilers, refrigerators, air conditioners and so on. The fundamental mechanical engineering courses are supplemented with additional fluid mechanics courses to include compressible flow and aerodynamics; additional thermodynamics, turbo machinery, refrigeration engineering, air conditioning engineering, design of heat exchangers and the likes.
Aerospace Engineering is the branch of engineering that applies scientific knowledge to the design, manufacture and operation of aircraft. The fundamental disciplines of the branch of engineering apply to all bodies and vehicles whose applied loads are influenced by aerodynamic forces. Within this context, aeronautical engineers are involved with automobiles, trains, ships, submarines, aircraft, rockets and missiles, sports equipment and a variety of energy systems. Courses in fundamental engineering principles are supplemented with courses in propulsion, aerodynamics, performance, stability and control, aircraft preliminary design, aeronautical structures, and aero elasticity. The undergraduate curriculum in aerospace engineering includes courses in subsonic and supersonic aero dynamics, propulsion, controls and performance, light-weight structures, spacecraft dynamics, and advanced materials.
Chemical Engineering
Chemical engineering applies the natural (or experimental) sciences and life sciences together with mathematics and economics to produce, transform, transport, and properly use chemicals, materials and energy. It essentially deals with the engineering of chemicals, energy and the processes that create and/or convert them. Chemical engineering is concerned with processes that convert raw materials or chemicals into more useful or valuable forms in the most economic and environmentally friendly manner. It is also concerned with pioneering valuable materials and related techniques. Chemical engineering therefore focuses on various processes that cause chemical, physical, biological and energy changes in addition to designing and inventing the way to do so. Basic principles in mathematics, chemistry, physics and biology are interpreted to application to the processes abovementioned.
Competences expected of graduates of the Program
Design processes, equipments and plants for chemical, food, petrochemical. Pharmaceutical and other manufacturing industries.
Ensure efficient, safe and environmentally responsible plant operation and management.
Doing researches in relation to Product Development, Process Optimization, environmental safety, Energy and other important issues
Teach both the fundamentals of Chemical Engineering as well as advanced topics based on practical experiences in process and related industries.
Work in multidisciplinary environment, challenging situations as well as under the conditions of globalization-in international cooperation.
Mechanical Design and Manufacturing Engineering
The aim of this program is to enable students to develop a thorough understanding of engineering design and manufacturing principles and apply that understanding to the design and manufacture of products, processes or systems at an overall or detail level. Modern design techniques and manufacturing technologies are thoroughly explained. Modules on design, processes, methods, tooling, CAD/CAM, planning and management are the core of the program.

This program ensures application of appropriate design and manufacturing processes and cost effective utilization of manufacturing tools, materials, equipment and manpower to manufacture parts. The program provides graduates with a unique blend of theoretical and hands-on-knowledge with computer integration in a manufacturing environment that directly corresponds to modern applications used in industry. Graduates are employed in a wide variety of areas relevant to manufacturing industries.
By completing the program, students are able to:
Evaluate and use appropriate design methods to solve design problems.  Develop an effective manufacturing process planning
Integrate the application of engineering design methods with manufacturing technology principles.
Plan, conduct and report research on an aspect of engineering design and manufacturing.
Apply academic theory, knowledge and work experience to identify, define and solve real-life engineering design and manufacturing problems.
Materials Science and Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering deal with the exploration of the relationship between structure and properties of all classes of materials including metals, ceramics, electronic materials, and biomaterials.  It incorporates elements of physics and chemistry. It also deals with production and synthesis of these materials. It is an important part of forensic engineering (the investigation of materials, products, structures or components that fail or do not operate or function as intended) and failure analysis, the latter being the key to understanding the cause of various accidents. Many of the most pressing scientific problems that are faced today are due to the limitations of the materials that are available and, as a result, breakthroughs in this field are likely to have a significant impact on the future. This program interweaves science and engineering of materials.
Specific study areas covered by the department are:
    Metallurgical Engineering
    Ceramic Engineering
    Polymer (Textile) Engineering
    Semiconductor Engineering
   Energy and Environmental Materials
After successful completion of courses in Materials Engineering, the graduates will be awarded: “Degree of Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering”. ASTU's Materials Engineering Specialists are believed to contribute significantly to the Science and Technology Innovation (STI)-led industrialization of Ethiopia through emphasizing both economic development and program-industry cooperation.
Mechanical Systems and Vehicle Engineering
Trained human resource is by far the most decisive components of the development period. The training program must be proper and aligned with the objective factor of specific area. Mechanical Systems and Vehicle Engineering Program of Adama Science and Technology University will be introduced for 2007 entry students after the university has been distinguished as one of Science and Technology University of the country. This program is the composition of Automotive, Farm Machinery and Mechanical Systems Engineering. It deals with application of mechanical, physical and electronic principles to solve the real-life problems based on the issues in design, construction, operation and maintenance related to mechanical systems and vehicle engineering. The program  is believed  to be motive force  to cultivate  the  potential  of  students,  and  the advancement  of  all  forms  of  knowledge  keeping  in  pace  with  international standards  of  academic  quality,  including  the  high  skilled  employment, to meet  the  growing economy operating in global environment.
