School of Civil Engineering and Architecture (SOCEA)

The ASTU School of civil engineering and architecture is restructured on November 2014 containing eight programs namely: Structure Engineering, geotechnical Engineering, hydraulics & environmental Engineering, construction technology and management, irrigation Engineering and river basin development, Architecture, urban planning and design, geomatics Engineering.  Currently, it comprise 4947 active UG students 140 academic staff member.  

Vision

School of civil engineering and architecture, in line ASTU’s vision, aspires to become a leader player in the Ethiopian industrial Revolution with national recognition in delivering research based quality education, innovative and outstanding research based quality education, innovative and outstanding research findings, meaningful and wanted to support the development of the country.

Mission

The mission of the school is delivering the three pillars education (teaching learning, research, community service) at the highest possible cutting edge standard to the nation. These would include:

Delivering the highest quality education and training in science and technology and graduating fully capable engineers, who can design, operate, control, manage and execute and endeavor in their area of profession ethics and conduct.

Providing education and training systems fully integrated and augmented by relevant research
Serving as a center of excellence for science and technology in the field civil engineering industrial development
Conducting applied problem solving research & providing consultancy and community service.
Organizational Structure and Contact Address
Programs Description

Architecture
Architecture is an art and science of designing buildings and other structures, and it deals with planning, designing and constructing form, space and ambience to reflect functional, technical, social, environmental and aesthetic considerations. It requires the creative manipulation and coordination of materials and technology, and of light and shadow. The practice of architecture also encompasses the pragmatic aspects of realizing buildings and structures, including scheduling, cost estimation and construction administration. Documentation produced by architects, typically drawings, plans and technical specifications, defines the structure and/or behaviour of a building or other kind of system that is to be or has been constructed. Architecture brings together the knowledge of art, science & technology and humanity for buildings and structures.

Urban Planning & Design
Urban planning is a technical and political process concerned with the use of land and design of the urban environment, including air, water, and the infrastructure passing into and out of urban areas such as transportation and distribution networks. It guides and ensures the orderly development of settlements and satellite communities which commute into and out of urban areas or share resources with it. It concerns itself with research and analysis, strategic thinking, architecture, urban design, public consultation, policy recommendations, implementation and management. Urban design is the process of designing and shaping cities, towns and villages. Whereas architecture focuses on individual buildings, urban design address the larger scale of groups of buildings, of streets and public spaces, whole neighbourhoods and districts, and entire cities, to make urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable. Urban design is an inter-disciplinary subject that unites all the built environment professions, including urban planning, landscape architecture, architecture, civil and municipal engineering. Urban design demands a good understanding of a wide range of subjects from physical geography, through to social science, and an appreciation for disciplines, such as real estate development, urban economics, political economy and social theory.

Urban Planning & Design

Construction Technology & Managment

Geomatics Engineering

Water Resource Engineering



Urban design is the process of designing and shaping cities, towns and villages. Whereas architecture focuses on individual buildings, urban design address the larger scale of groups of buildings, of streets and public spaces, whole neighbourhoods and districts, and entire cities, to make urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable. Urban design is an inter-disciplinary subject that unites all the built environment professions, including urban planning, landscape architecture, architecture, civil and municipal engineering. Urban design demands a good understanding of a wide range of subjects from physical geography, through to social science, and an appreciation for disciplines, such as real estate development, urban economics, political economy and social theory.

Civil Engineering

Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, buildings etc. It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including Structural Engineering and Geotechnical Engineering. Subjects related to structural engineering deals with the analysis and design of structures that support or resist loads. Structural Engineering is largely the implementation of mechanics to the design of the large structures that are fundamental to basic living, such as buildings, bridges, walls, dams, and tunnels. Structural engineering theory is based upon applied physical laws and empirical knowledge of the structural performance of different materials and geometries. Structural engineering design utilizes a number of simple structural elements to build complex structural systems. While subjects related to Geotechnical engineering associate with the behavior of soils under the influence of loading forces and soil-water interactions. This knowledge is applied to the design of foundations, retaining walls, earth dams, clay liners, and geosynthetics for waste containment. The goals of geotechnical engineers could range from the design of foundations and temporary excavation support, through route selection for railways and highways, to the increasingly important areas of landfill disposal of wastes and groundwater contamination. Geotechnical principles are important in civil engineering, but also has applications in military, mining, petroleum and other engineering disciplines that are concerned with construction occurring on the surface or within the ground.